{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-BoldOblique;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red35\green255\blue6;\red251\green0\blue7;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c1\c1;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c99985;
\cssrgb\c0\c100000\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c12195\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww19200\viewh18620\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 Manual for the Java application \'94
\f1\i\b DrumMachine
\f0\i0\b0 \'94. \

\f2\i Coded and Written by Emil Isaksson. 
\f0\i0 \
\

\f1\i\b Opening the software;
\f0\i0\b0  \
Load the folder called \'94SlutprojectSept20\'94 into Eclipse, close all other programs within Eclipse (if there are any), and run \
the application via the small green \'94PLAY\'94 symbol. \
\

\f1\i\b Exiting the software;\

\f0\i0\b0 Just close the main window called \'94DrumMachine Main Window\'94 and the application quits automatically. \
\

\f1\i\b Using the software;
\f0\i0\b0 \
The application is an easy to use drum machine that lets you play a beat using either your mouse pointer or the buttons \
\'941\'94 - \'947\'94 on your computers keyboard.\
The operation is easy; Just click the sample you want to hear, or press the corresponding key on your keyboard (read on for details),  and you will hear it play back from your computers loudspeakers. Theres 6 different samples in total, controlled by the 7 buttons on the user interface. \
\
The first five buttons, all in \cf2 \cb3 BLACK\cf0 \cb1  writing, are pretty much self explanatory.\
\cf2 \cb3 \'94KICK\'94\cf0 \cb1 , \cf4 \cb3 \'94SNARE\'94\cf0 \cb1 , \cf2 \cb3 \'94HIHAT OPEN\'94\cf0 \cb1 , \cf2 \cb3 \'94HIHAT\'94\cf0 \cb1  and \cf2 \cb3 \'94CYMBAL\'94\cf0 \cb1 . They play back, in the same order, by pressing the key \
\'941\'94 - \'945\'94 of your computer keyboard. You can click the buttons with the mouse as well but it is not as tactile as using \
the keyboard. Using the keyboard you can trigger two samples at once, just like a real analog drum machine. \
They play back drum sounds sampled from a famous, vintage drum sampler, namely the Roland TR808. \
\
The \cf2 \cb3 \'94HIHAT\'94\cf0 \cb1  has a special feature. If you hold this button down it will loop the playback until you release it. This is a handy feature for \'94trap\'94 style beats. There is however a limitation to this feature; As your operating system has a built in \'94key repeat\'94 feature this will eventually take over. You will hear this after about a second and it is heard as a quite obvious stuttering. You can choose to like this as an effect or just avoid looping for longer than it takes fore the issue to surface. Holding the key for a quarter note (the time between\
the kick and snare in a traditional drum groove) is generally not a problem. \
\
The button in \cf5 GREEN\cf0 ,\cf5 \cb3 \'94CLICK ON\'94\cf0 \cb1   (triggered by \'946\'94 on your keyboard), represents the \'94Click\'94.  This turns on a static \
\'94Click\'94 loop for you to play over. A good way to practice musical timing and also, being part of the above mentioned \
drum sampler, adds to the vibe of the Drum Machine. It is set to 90BPM. A sexy and smooth tempo for all you lovers out there\'85 
\f3 \uc0\u55357 \u56459  \

\f0 A handy feature is that every time you press the \'94CLICK\'94 button the click starts over. Nice if you loose your time and \
want to start over. Just keep Playing and press the \'94Click\'94 button in time, you are now on top pf the beat again.  
\f3 \
\

\f0 The Button in \cf6 RED\cf0  writing, \cf6 \cb3 \'94CLICK OFF\'94\cf0 \cb1  (triggered by \'947\'94 on your keyboard), turns the click off.
\f3 \
\
\

\f0 Hope you enjoy the app!
\f3 \
\
}